# 01-09-2017

* Grafana
  * An open source metric analytics & visualization suite. It is most commonly used for visualizing time series data for infrastructure and application analytics but many use it in other domains including industrial sensors, home automation, weather, and process control.
  * Dashboard of graphite data
    * Graphite is an example of Open Source software which is very much better than similar closed-source, enterprise-grade software. Built in graphite dashboard is very old style dashboard and not user friendly.
      * Ability to build custom graphite graph views. I mean flexibility to group all related of a service into one dashboard
      * Scriptable graphs dashboard
      * Ability to zoom in / zoom out graphs
      * Easy to setup
  * Grafana is fantastic tool for viewing graphite graphs and I just fell in love with this tool.
  * It has got all the features that any graphing tool should have and was able to setup very easily.

* Grafana data sources
  * Graphite
    * Grafana has an advanced Graphite query editor that lets you quickly navigate the metric space, add functions, change function parameters and much more.
    * The editor can handle all types of graphite queries.
    * It can even handle complex nested queries through the use of query references.
    * Navigate metric segments : Click the Select metric link to start navigating the metric space. One you start you can continue using the mouse or keyboard arrow keys. You can select a wildcard and still continue.
    * Functions : Click the plus icon to the right to add a function. You can search for the function or select it from the menu. Once a function is selected it will be added and your focus will be in the text box of the first parameter. To later change a parameter just click on it and it will turn into a text box. To delete a function click the function name followed by the x icon.
    * Optional parameters : Some functions like aliasByNode support an optional second argument. To add this parameter specify for example 3,-2 as the first parameter and the function editor will adapt and move the -2 to a second parameter. To remove the second optional parameter just click on it and leave it blank and the editor will remove it.
    * Nested Queries : You can reference queries by the row “letter” that they’re on (similar to Microsoft Excel). If you add a second query to a graph, you can reference the first query simply by typing in #A. This provides an easy and convenient way to build compounded queries.
    * Point consolidation : All Graphite metrics are consolidated so that Graphite doesn’t return more data points than there are pixels in the graph. By default, this consolidation is done using avg function. You can how Graphite consolidates metrics by adding the Graphite consolidateBy function.
    * Templating : Instead of hard-coding things like server, application and sensor name in you metric queries you can use variables in their place. Variables are shown as dropdown select boxes at the top of the dashboard. These dropdowns makes it easy to change the data being displayed in your dashboard.
    * Query variable : The query you specify in the query field should be a metric find type of query. You can also create nested variables that use other variables in their definition.
  * Elasticsearch
    * Grafana ships with advanced support for Elasticsearch. You can do many types of simple or complex Elasticsearch queries to visualize logs or metrics stored in Elasticsearch. You can also annotate your graphs with log events stored in Elasticsearch.
    * Direct access : If you select direct access you must update your Elasticsearch configuration to allow other domains to access Elasticsearch from the browser. You do this by specifying these to options in your elasticsearch.yml config file.
    * Index settings : Here you can specify a default for the time field and specify the name of your Elasticsearch index. You can use a time pattern for the index name or a wildcard.
    * Elasticsearch version : Be sure to specify your Elasticsearch version in the version selection dropdown. This is very important as there are differences how queries are composed. Currently only 2.x and 5.x are supported.
    * Metric Query editor : The Elasticsearch query editor allows you to select multiple metrics and group by multiple terms or filters. Use the plus and minus icons to the right to add/remove metrics or group by clauses. Some metrics and group by clauses haves options, click the option text to expand the row to view and edit metric or group by options.
    * Pipeline metrics : Some metric aggregations are called Pipeline aggregations, for example, Moving Average and Derivative. Elasticsearch pipeline metrics require another metric to be based on. Use the eye icon next to the metric to hide metrics from appearing in the graph. This is useful for metrics you only have in the query for use in a pipeline metric.
