# 31-08-2017

* Sahara project
  * To provide users with a simple means to provision data processing frameworks (such as Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark and Apache Storm) on OpenStack.
  * This is accomplished by specifying configuration parameters such as the framework version, cluster topology, node hardware details and more.

* Sahara upgrade
  * Icehouse -> Juno
    * Main binary renamed to sahara-all
      * The All-In-One sahara binary has been renamed from sahara-api to sahara-all. The new name should be used in all cases where the All-In-One sahara is desired.
    * Authentication middleware changes
      * The custom auth_token middleware has been deprecated in favor of the keystone middleware. This change requires an update to the sahara configuration file.
    * Database package changes
      * The oslo based code from sahara.openstack.common.db has been replaced by the usage of the oslo.db package. This change does not require any update to sahara’s configuration file.
    * Sahara integration into OpenStack Dashboard
      * The sahara dashboard package has been deprecated in the Juno release. The functionality of the dashboard has been fully incorporated into the OpenStack Dashboard. The sahara interface is available under the “Project” -> “Data Processing” tab.
      * The Data processing service endpoints must be registered in the Identity service catalog for the Dashboard to properly recognize and display those user interface components.
    * Virtual machine user name changes
      * The HEAT infrastructure engine has been updated to use the same rules for instance user names as the direct engine. In previous releases the user name for instances created by sahara using HEAT was always ‘ec2-user’.
      * This change breaks backward compatibility for clusters created using the HEAT infrastructure engine prior to the Juno release. Clusters will continue to operate, but we do not recommended using the scaling operations with them.
    * Anti affinity implementation changed
      * Starting with the Juno release the anti affinity feature is implemented using server groups. From the user perspective there will be no noticeable changes with this feature. Internally this change has introduced the following behavior:
        * Server group objects will be created for any clusters with anti affinity enabled.
        * Affected instances on the same host will not be allowed even if they do not have common processes. Prior to Juno, instances with differing processes were allowed on the same host. The new implementation guarantees that all affected instances will be on different hosts regardless of their processes.
      * The new anti affinity implementation will only be applied for new clusters. Clusters created with previous versions will continue to operate under the older implementation, this applies to scaling operations on these clusters as well.
  * Juno -> Kilo
    * Sahara requires policy configuration
      * Sahara now requires a policy configuration file. The policy.json file should be placed in the same directory as the sahara configuration file or specified using the policy_file parameter.
  * Kilo -> Liberty
    * Direct engine deprecation
      * In the Liberty release the direct infrastructure engine has been deprecated and the heat infrastructure engine is now default. This means, that it is preferable to use heat engine instead now. In the Liberty release you can continue to operate clusters with the direct engine (create, delete, scale).
      * Using heat engine only the delete operation is available on clusters that were created by the direct engine. After the Liberty release the direct engine will be removed, this means that you will only be able to delete clusters created with the direct engine.
  * Liberty -> Mitaka
    * Direct engine is removed.
  * Mitaka -> Newton
    * Sahara CLI command is deprecated
